= Test Configuration

Description of config files for the ActiveMailbox test suite.

== Overview

The ActiveMailbox test suite requires a couple of configuration files in order
to perform all of the available tests at least once.

Configuration files - what for? Well for one thing, some of the unit tests work
on a set of test fixtures and a config file can tell them if they have
successfully parsed a mailbox file, for instance.

But also, since ActiveMailbox is a library that operates on one or more data
sources (or IMAP servers, to be more specific), the path to these sources must
be provided in order to test the core functionality of the library.

IMAP servers in particular require a user to LOGIN prior to (mostly) anything
else, and thus a username+password combination is required in order to access a
mailbox.

And last but not least, enabling and disabling specific tests is currently
accomplished by adding this information to the config files. Note: this may
be subject to future changes.

== Unit Tests

The configuration file for unit tests is called unit.yml and should follow the
following pattern:

  # Unit test config starts here
  unit:

    # RMail extensions require a test fixture in form of an mbox file
    rmail:

      # This is the name of the mbox file in the test/fixtures/ folder
      mbox: rmail_mbox

      # This is the number of messages in the mbox file to check against
      length: 5

    # This section specifies the unit tests to execute
    test:

      # Test core extensions (String, Numeric, Array, Hash)
      core: true

      # Test other extensions (currently only extensions to the RMail library)
      extensions: true

You can actually use this snippet as a template as the fixture file is currently
static and should be part of the Git repository.

== Functional Tests

Functional tests require two different configuration files: a file named
accounts.yml where a number of IMAP accounts are enlisted, and a file named
functional.yml which contains the actual configuration for the functional tests.

Lets begin with the content of functional.yml:

  # Functional test config starts here
  functional:

    # This is the filename of a message stub that's supposed to be located in
    # the test/fixtures/ folder. It's used to test CRUD operations.
    stub: message_stub

    # Set this to 'true' in order to enable the debug mode of the Net::IMAP
    # library. Will provide you with detailed live dump of the complete IMAP
    # protocol exchange when running functional tests.
    debug: false

    # This section specifies the functional tests to execute
    test:

      # Basic connectivity and timeout tests.
      connection: true

      # Test IMAP folder class
      folders: true

      # Test IMAP message class
      messages: true

    # A list of IMAP servers to test. Each server runs through the whole set
    # of functional tests.
    hosts:

      # The identifier of an IMAP server from accounts.yml
      - "gmail"

As with unit.yml, you can use this snippet as a template for your own config.
Just make sure that the list of hosts corresponds with your accounts.yml .

Speaking of which, here's what accounts.yml is supposed to look like:

  # This is the identifier of the first account
  gmail:

    # This is the account type. Currently, 'imap' is the only reasonable value
    type: imap

    # The username that you want to login with
    user: john.doe

    # The password you want to login with. Currently, this is the AES-encrypted
    # form of the password that's internally used throughout ActiveMailbox.
    # This may change in future versions, but for now please refer to the
    # ActiveMailbox configuration docs for more information
    password: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

    # This is the host address of the IMAP server
    host: imap.googlemail.com

    # This is the (preferred) authentication method to use. This can either be
    # 'PLAIN', 'LOGIN', or 'CRAM-MD5' and must be supported by the server. Most
    # common should be 'LOGIN'
    authentication: LOGIN

    # The mail address which your account is registered for. Unfortunately, this
    # can't always be created reliably from the upper information. Some servers
    # require you to specify the "From:" header field when creating messages in
    # a folder though
    address: john.doe@gmail.com

    # A number of special folders to use for the tests
    folders:

      # Specify a path to folder that may contain one or more subfolders
      writeable: active_mailbox

      # Specify a path to a folder that can't be created, i.e. because it's
      # nested too deep
      protected: active_mailbox/foo/foo/foo/foo/foo/foo/foo

  # This is the identifier of the second account
  foo:
    ...

The folder options in this file may become optional at some point, but the tests
won't succeed without them for now.
